june 15 morning
you arrive in the small town of tromso
in northern norway
from the end of may to the end of july
is like one
endless day the first thing you notice
in your hotel room is
thick black curtains yeah makes sense
you think you've come to write an
article about life at the north pole
your main objective find out why night
doesn't fall here
you leave the hotel for a walk around
town as the hours pass
the sun moves across the sky just like
it does in your hometown
nothing special so far you decide to
give your feet a rest
and take an outside table at a local
cafe
you start taking notes for your paper a
couple more hours pass
and the sun is falling toward the
horizon
shadows creep over the buildings three
hours later
it's even closer to the edge of the
earth it seems night will come soon
and your body's telling you it must be
evening maybe 9 pm
that's when you see it the sun stops
going down
without dipping below the skyline it
shifts sideways and continues to shine
you didn't even notice the day ended
it's 12 45
a.m you go back to the hotel hold the
black curtains closed and get in bed
you wake up to rays of light shining
around the curtains
it seems you've overslept and it's
already known
you look at your phone 3 am you try to
fall back asleep
but you can locals might be used to this
extreme lifestyle
but for visitors it can be quite
disorienting
like having jet lag that just won't go
away
the next night or day you don't know
anymore
you hang an extra layer of curtains and
stick foil on the windows
you don't understand how people can live
in such a place
but the most surprising thing is how
they're so energetic and fresh
you go down to the lobby and that's when
a staff member tells you
the secret to happiness here during
endless summer days you don't have to
adhere to your usual daily routine
it's always light and you need to accept
this
wake up at 2 am great go for a jog
if you want to sleep after lunch go to
bed and don't worry about it
thanks to the endless sun you're charged
with energy
so all the people here are happy and
active they take advantage of these
eternal days
because when winter comes so do the
endless nights
december 14th your article has become a
fully fledged
research project you've decided to stay
and see this town's other polar extreme
it's 11 am now but it might as well be
11 pm
you feel like you've been transported to
some rogue planet with no star
you leave the hotel it's cold and dark
all day you work on your research paper
in the library
you realize how much you miss the sun
the darkness is really taking a toll on
your mood
you head back to the hotel and sleep for
what feels like a week
one day you go outside to get some fresh
air and watch the northern lights
an incredibly beautiful sight but it no
longer impresses you
because this happens every day a group
of young people pass
you can't help but envy their cheery
mood you decide to get to know them
better
maybe they can tell you the secret to
getting through endless winter nights
one of them says i know just what you
need
you follow these people to what looks
like a small log cabin
you go inside and see just a wooden
stove when benches
your new friend hands you a towel and
says with a smile
welcome to a norwegian sauna you want to
get out of this heat but your friends
ask you to wait longer
you're covered in sweat you can't take
it anymore
you burst out of this giant wooden
cooker and dive into a nearby snow drift
adrenaline and endorphins rush through
your body
for the first time in a long time you
feel happy
you go back to your hotel and sleep like
a baby
your new friend calls you the next
morning come on let's go snowboarding
everyone stays active with winter sports
it's another way to fight the endless
nighttime blues
after that you part ways and head to a
cafe
the coffee warms your body and soul
you eventually finish your paper and in
february you see the first
rays of sun now the day will get longer
and the night shorter so why does this
happen
endless summer days is the result of the
earth's axis
tilting at a certain angle towards the
sun the north pole and arctic circle
surrounding it
just can't escape the light you can even
do an experiment at home
grab a globe and tilt it at about 24
degrees
now turn on a flashlight point it at
your globe from the side
rotate your little earth and you'll see
the arctic circle stays in the
flashlight's beam
for endless winter nights just tilt your
globe away from the flashlight
you'll see the arctic circle stays out
of its beam
rukan in southern norway also rarely
sees the sun in the winter
it shines but its rays can't reach the
town because it's sitting down in a
valley between two huge mountains
the town and its inhabitants stay in the
shadow all day
to solve this problem residents built
three giant
sun mirrors and put them high on the
mountain now when the sun rises
the mirrors reflect the light into a
small patch on the town square
hey better than nothing from the darkest
place to the brightest
welcome to white sands national monument
those endless rolling hills of white
are actually crystals of gypsum the
material drywall and plaster are made
from
the sunlight reflects often brilliantly
the desert is 4 000 feet above sea level
so the sun shines especially bright here
also there are practically never clouds
don't forget your shades the grand banks
of newfoundland and canada
are where the cold labrador current and
the warm gulf stream collide
the result towns on the coast get
covered in fog
for most of the year according to the
guinness book of records
this is the foggiest place in the world
the humidity is pretty high
but not compared to the village where
the rain never stops
moss and ram india is considered the
wettest place on earth
all the moisture that accumulates in the
bay of bengal
falls into this village there are
endless downpours
locals get around under special
umbrellas made of reeds
the village has a lot of lush green
vegetation
thanks to the rains but the coolest
thing here is the living bridges
they're created by tree roots growing
out horizontally
on to the windiest city in the world the
strongest gusts recorded here reach
154 miles per hour no
it's not chicago wellington new zealand
sits right on the cook strait a passage
between the country's north and south
islands
winds from the tasman sea blow into the
gap
because the area is mountainous this
creates a tunnel
and the incoming winds get stronger kind
of like when you put your thumb over a
garden hose
the water has less space to get through
so it comes out with more force
constant hurricane force winds do have
their perks
they create steep waves that attract
sailors wind surfers
and kite surfers from all over the world
also the winds carry any air pollution
away from the city
but most importantly the 62 wind
turbines
installed on the hills feed the city
with a constant supply
of energy now imagine you're walking
toward a mountain
it's night a little chilly ahead at the
bottom of the hill
you see a wall of fire three stories
high
this isn't a forest fire or a volcanic
area just
magical flames that don't spread or burn
out
welcome to the land of fire azerbaijan
the strange burning hill you're looking
at is known as yanar dag
fire mountain it's been burning non-stop
for decades
possibly even centuries when you're
standing here
mouth a jar at the wonder you might
catch the smell of gas in the air
previously the cause of the eternal
flame was attributed to some sort of
sorcery
but we now know the hill is burning
because of flammable natural gases
leaking out of the ground you can even
light nearby streams on fire
but the fish won't be happy with you